---
layout: post
title: "Finding changes by Commit Message"
date: 2019-05-03
---

In my [last post](http://isaac-friedman.com/2019/04/15/isaac-friedman-personal-site-launched.html) I said that my next post would be about different flavors of markdown. Well, it turns out that the differences between flavors of markdown aren't that huge and I honestly don't find them all that interesting. Instead, I'm going to tell you about something that makes figuring out what actually happened in a given git commit a little easier. My last job used SVN and I've only ever used git in personal projects so I've never had a reason to use a lot of the more powerful log features. Now I do, and I'm excited for the chance to geek out over new tools with the one and a half people who may ever read this blog.

Here's a pretty likely scenario: You want to know what files were modified in a given commit. You don't know the SHA but you do have some idea of what the commit message would say. Let's use the last thing I did with this site as an example. I put the GitHub logo next to the word "GitHub" in the site footer.

Now, suppose I don't know much about Jekyll and I want to know what files had to be modified to accomplish that change. Enter the git log.
As you probably know if you're reading about how to do things in git, each commit has a unique identifier called a SHA. You can use the SHA, or the first few digits of the SHA, to find out pretty much anything about that commit. Unfortunately you won't normally know the SHA you're looking for offhand so we'll need to do a little detective work.

I know my commit had something to do with the logo, so let's try looking for that:  
`git log | grep logo`

That gets us  
`patch: added github logo to footer`

That gives me the commit message, but the message doesn't really answer our question -- "how did he (I) do that?"
Let's use a little more `grep` magic to find out. The `grep -B` option allows you to specify a number of lines to show back `B`efore the matched expression.
Since the message is on the 5th line of a git log, you can get the SHA of any commit by running the last command with `-B 5`.


    commit 2e78faeda25caf0c591deb3683fa46847f6714cb  
    Author: Isaac Friedman <isaac@isaac-friedman.com>  

    Date:   Fri May 3 15:07:58 2019 -0400

        patch: added github logo to footer


There you have it. Now I can use the SHA 2e78fae with `git log --stat 2e78fae` to see the diffstat or `git log -p 2e78fae` to see the actual changes.

For more information about git log, check out the [official git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log).
